The Project Gutenberg eBook of Moby Dick; Or, The Whale
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Moby Dick; Or, The Whale

Author: Herman Melville


        
Release date: July 1, 2001 [eBook #2701]
                Most recently updated: February 10, 2026

Language: English

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/2701

Credits: Daniel Lazarus, Jonesey, and David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR, THE WHALE ***




MOBY-DICK;

or, THE WHALE.

By Herman Melville



CONTENTS

ETYMOLOGY.

EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).

CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.

CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

CHAPTER 6. The Street.

CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.

CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.

CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.

CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.

CHAPTER 12. Biographical.

CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

CHAPTER 15. Chowder.

CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.

CHAPTER 18. His Mark.

CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.

CHAPTER 20. All Astir.

CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.

CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.

CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.

CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

CHAPTER 28. Ahab.

CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.

CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.

CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.

CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.

CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.

CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.

CHAPTER 37. Sunset.

CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.

CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.

CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of the Whale.

CHAPTER 43. Hark!

CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.

CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.

CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

CHAPTER 50. Ahab鈥檚 Boat and Crew. Fedallah.

CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.

CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho鈥檚 Story.

CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.

CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.

CHAPTER 58. Brit.

CHAPTER 59. Squid.

CHAPTER 60. The Line.

CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

CHAPTER 62. The Dart.

CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.

CHAPTER 64. Stubb鈥檚 Supper.

CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.

CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.

CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.

CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.

CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.

CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam鈥檚 Story.

CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.

CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
over Him.

CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale鈥檚 Head鈥擟ontrasted View.

CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale鈥檚 Head鈥擟ontrasted View.

CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.

CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.

CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.

CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.

CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.

CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.

CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.

CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.

CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.

CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.

CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.

CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.

CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.

CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.

CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.

CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.

CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.

CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.

CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.

CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale鈥檚 Skeleton.

CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.

CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale鈥檚 Magnitude Diminish?鈥擶ill He Perish?

CHAPTER 106. Ahab鈥檚 Leg.

CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.

CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.

CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.

CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.

CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.

CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.

CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.

CHAPTER 119. The Candles.

CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.

CHAPTER 121. Midnight.鈥擳he Forecastle Bulwarks.

CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.鈥擳hunder and Lightning.

CHAPTER 123. The Musket.

CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.

CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.

CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

CHAPTER 130. The Hat.

CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.

CHAPTER 133. The Chase鈥擣irst Day.

CHAPTER 134. The Chase鈥擲econd Day.

CHAPTER 135. The Chase.鈥擳hird Day.

Epilogue




Original Transcriber鈥檚 Notes:

This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg鈥檚 archives. The
proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.





  ETYMOLOGY.


  (Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School.)

  The pale Usher鈥攖hreadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
  now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
  handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the
  known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
  somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.

  鈥淲hile you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
  name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue, leaving out, through
  ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh up the
  signification of the word, you deliver that which is not true.鈥?
  鈥擾Hackluyt._

  鈥淲HALE. * * * Sw. and Dan. _hval_. This animal is named from
  roundness or rolling; for in Dan. _hvalt_ is arched or vaulted.鈥?
  鈥擾Webster鈥檚 Dictionary._

  鈥淲HALE. * * * It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. _Wallen_;
  A.S. _Walw-ian_, to roll, to wallow.鈥?鈥擾Richardson鈥檚 Dictionary._


  鈥徸椬曗€?                _Hebrew_.
  习畏蟿慰蟼,             _Greek_.
  CETUS,             _Latin_.
  WH艗L,              _Anglo-Saxon_.
  HVALT,             _Danish_.
  WAL,               _Dutch_.
  HWAL,              _Swedish_.
  HVALUR,            _Icelandic_.
  WHALE,             _English_.
  BALEINE,           _French_.
  BALLENA,           _Spanish_.
  PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,   _Fegee_.
  PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,   _Erromangoan_.


  EXTRACTS. (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).



  It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of
  a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long
  Vaticans and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random
  allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever,
  sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least,
  take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in
  these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As
  touching the ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here
  appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as
  affording a glancing bird鈥檚 eye view of what has been promiscuously
  said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and
  generations, including our own.

  So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
  Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this
  world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too
  rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel
  poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them
  bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogether
  unpleasant sadness鈥擥ive it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much the more
  pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for
  ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the
  Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the
  royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before
  are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of
  long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming.
  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together鈥攖here, ye shall strike
  unsplinterable glasses!

EXTRACTS.

  鈥淎nd God created great whales.鈥?鈥擾Genesis_.

  鈥淟eviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep
  to be hoary.鈥?鈥擾Job_.

  鈥淣ow the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.鈥?
  鈥擾Jonah_.

  鈥淭here go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to
  play therein.鈥?鈥擾Psalms_.

  鈥淚n that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
  shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that
  crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.鈥?
  鈥擾Isaiah_.

  鈥淎nd what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this
  monster鈥檚 mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all
  incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the
  bottomless gulf of his paunch.鈥?鈥擾Holland鈥檚 Plutarch鈥檚 Morals_.

  鈥淭he Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are:
  among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as
  much in length as four acres or arpens of land.鈥?鈥擾Holland鈥檚 Pliny_.

  鈥淪carcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
  great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
  former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
  open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea
  before him into a foam.鈥?鈥擾Tooke鈥檚 Lucian_. 鈥淿The True History_.鈥?




  鈥淗e visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
  which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he
  brought some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own
  country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He
  said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.鈥?
  鈥擾Other or Other鈥檚 verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King
  Alfred, A.D._ 890.

  鈥淎nd whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
  enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster鈥檚 (whale鈥檚) mouth, are
  immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
  great security, and there sleeps.鈥?鈥擬ONTAIGNE. 鈥擾Apology for Raimond
  Sebond_.

  鈥淟et us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if it is not Leviathan
  described by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job.鈥?
  鈥擾Rabelais_.

  鈥淭his whale鈥檚 liver was two cartloads.鈥?鈥擾Stowe鈥檚 Annals_.

  鈥淭he great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling
  pan.鈥?鈥擾Lord Bacon鈥檚 Version of the Psalms_.

  鈥淭ouching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
  nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
  quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.鈥?鈥擾Ibid_.
  鈥淿History of Life and Death_.鈥?




  鈥淭he sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.鈥?
  鈥擾King Henry_.

  鈥淰ery like a whale.鈥?鈥擾Hamlet_.


  鈥淲hich to secure, no skill of leach鈥檚 art Mote him availle, but to
  returne againe To his wound鈥檚 worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting
  his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as the wounded whale to
  shore flies thro鈥?the maine.鈥?鈥擾The Fairie Queen_.



  鈥淚mmense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
  calm trouble the ocean till it boil.鈥?鈥擾Sir William Davenant. Preface
  to Gondibert_.

  鈥淲hat spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
  Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, _Nescio quid
  sit_.鈥?鈥擾Sir T. Browne. Of Sperma Ceti and the Sperma Ceti Whale.
  Vide his V. E._


  鈥淟ike Spencer鈥檚 Talus with his modern flail He threatens ruin with
  his ponderous tail. ... Their fixed jav鈥檒ins in his side he wears,
  And on his back a grove of pikes appears.鈥?鈥擾Waller鈥檚 Battle of the
  Summer Islands_.



  鈥淏y art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
  State鈥?in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.鈥?鈥擾Opening
  sentence of Hobbes鈥檚 Leviathan_.

  鈥淪illy Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a
  sprat in the mouth of a whale.鈥?鈥擾Pilgrim鈥檚 Progress_.


  鈥淭hat sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest
  that swim the ocean stream.鈥?鈥擾Paradise Lost_.

  鈥斺€淭here Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in the deep Stretched
  like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at
  his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.鈥?鈥擾Ibid_.



  鈥淭he mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of
  oil swimming in them.鈥?鈥擾Fuller鈥檚 Profane and Holy State_.


  鈥淪o close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
  their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through
  their gaping jaws mistake the way.鈥?鈥擾Dryden鈥檚 Annus Mirabilis_.



  鈥淲hile the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off
  his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come;
  but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.鈥?鈥擾Thomas
  Edge鈥檚 Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

  鈥淚n their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
  wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
  nature has placed on their shoulders.鈥?鈥擾Sir T. Herbert鈥檚 Voyages
  into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll_.

  鈥淗ere they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
  proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their
  ship upon them.鈥?鈥擾Schouten鈥檚 Sixth Circumnavigation_.

  鈥淲e set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
  Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can鈥檛 open his mouth, but
  that is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether
  they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his
  pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
  barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me
  that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.鈥?
  鈥擾A Voyage to Greenland, A.D._ 1671. _Harris Coll_.

  鈥淪everal whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
  eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
  informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
  baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.鈥?
  鈥擾Sibbald鈥檚 Fife and Kinross_.

  鈥淢yself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
  Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that
  was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.鈥?
  鈥擾Richard Strafford鈥檚 Letter from the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D._
  1668.

  鈥淲hales in the sea God鈥檚 voice obey.鈥?鈥擾N. E. Primer_.

  鈥淲e saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
  southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
  northward of us.鈥?鈥擾Captain Cowley鈥檚 Voyage round the Globe, A.D._
  1729.

  鈥?.. and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
  insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.鈥?
  鈥擾Ulloa鈥檚 South America_.


  鈥淭o fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust the important
  charge, the petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to
  fail, Tho鈥?stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.鈥?鈥擾Rape
  of the Lock_.



  鈥淚f we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
  take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
  contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
  animal in creation.鈥?鈥擾Goldsmith, Nat. Hist_.

  鈥淚f you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
  speak like great whales.鈥?鈥擾Goldsmith to Johnson_.

  鈥淚n the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
  found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
  then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves
  behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.鈥?鈥擾Cook鈥檚
  Voyages_.

  鈥淭he larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
  great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
  mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
  and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order
  to terrify and prevent their too near approach.鈥?鈥擾Uno Von Troil鈥檚
  Letters on Banks鈥檚 and Solander鈥檚 Voyage to Iceland in_ 1772.

  鈥淭he Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
  animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.鈥?
  鈥擾Thomas Jefferson鈥檚 Whale Memorial to the French minister in_ 1778.

  鈥淎nd pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?鈥?鈥擾Edmund Burke鈥檚
  reference in Parliament to the Nantucket Whale-Fishery_.

  鈥淪pain鈥攁 great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.鈥?鈥擾Edmund
  Burke_. (_somewhere_.)

  鈥淎 tenth branch of the king鈥檚 ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
  on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from
  pirates and robbers, is the right to _royal_ fish, which are whale
  and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the
  coast, are the property of the king.鈥?鈥擾Blackstone_.


  鈥淪oon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o鈥檈r
  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.鈥?
  鈥擾Falconer鈥檚 Shipwreck_.

  鈥淏right shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew self
  driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven.

  鈥淪o fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted
  by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.鈥?鈥擾Cowper, on the Queen鈥檚
  Visit to London_.



  鈥淭en or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a
  stroke, with immense velocity.鈥?鈥擾John Hunter鈥檚 account of the
  dissection of a whale_. (_A small sized one_.)

  鈥淭he aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
  water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
  through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
  gushing from the whale鈥檚 heart.鈥?鈥擾Paley鈥檚 Theology_.

  鈥淭he whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.鈥?鈥擾Baron
  Cuvier_.

  鈥淚n 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any
  till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.鈥?
  鈥擾Colnett鈥檚 Voyage for the Purpose of Extending the Spermaceti Whale
  Fishery_.


  鈥淚n the free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play,
  in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which
  language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread
  Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gather鈥檇 in shoals
  immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through
  that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by
  voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm鈥檇 in front or
  jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.鈥?
  鈥擾Montgomery鈥檚 World before the Flood_.

  鈥淚o!  Paean!  Io! sing. To the finny people鈥檚 king. Not a mightier
  whale than this In the vast Atlantic is; Not a fatter fish than he,
  Flounders round the Polar Sea.鈥?鈥擾Charles Lamb鈥檚 Triumph of the
  Whale_.



  鈥淚n the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
  whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
  there鈥攑ointing to the sea鈥攊s a green pasture where our children鈥檚
  grand-children will go for bread.鈥?鈥擾Obed Macy鈥檚 History of
  Nantucket_.

  鈥淚 built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the
  form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale鈥檚 jaw bones.鈥?
  鈥擾Hawthorne鈥檚 Twice Told Tales_.

  鈥淪he came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been
  killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years
  ago.鈥?鈥擾Ibid_.

  鈥淣o, Sir, 鈥檛is a Right Whale,鈥?answered Tom; 鈥淚 saw his sprout; he
  threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to
  look at. He鈥檚 a raal oil-butt, that fellow!鈥?鈥擾Cooper鈥檚 Pilot_.

  鈥淭he papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette that
  whales had been introduced on the stage there.鈥?鈥擾Eckermann鈥檚
  Conversations with Goethe_.

  鈥淢y God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?鈥?I answered, 鈥渨e have been
  stove by a whale.鈥?鈥斺€淿Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship
  Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a
  large Sperm Whale in the Pacific Ocean_.鈥?_By Owen Chace of
  Nantucket, first mate of said vessel. New York_, 1821.


  鈥淎 mariner sat in the shrouds one night, The wind was piping free;
  Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, And the phospher
  gleamed in the wake of the whale, As it floundered in the sea.鈥?
  鈥擾Elizabeth Oakes Smith_.



  鈥淭he quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
  of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
  English miles....

  鈥淪ometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
  cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four
  miles.鈥?鈥擾Scoresby_.

  鈥淢ad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
  infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous
  head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he
  rushes at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with
  vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of
  great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so
  interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an
  animal (as the Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected,
  or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and
  many of them competent observers, that of late years, must have
  possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of
  witnessing their habitudes.鈥?鈥擾Thomas Beale鈥檚 History of the Sperm
  Whale_, 1839.

  鈥淭he Cachalot鈥?(Sperm Whale) 鈥渋s not only better armed than the True
  Whale鈥?(Greenland or Right Whale) 鈥渋n possessing a formidable weapon
  at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
  disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once
  so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as
  the most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale
  tribe.鈥?鈥擾Frederick Debell Bennett鈥檚 Whaling Voyage Round the Globe_,
  1840.


  October 13.  鈥淭here she blows,鈥?was sung out from the mast-head.
  鈥淲here away?鈥?demanded the captain. 鈥淭hree points off the lee bow,
  sir.鈥?鈥淩aise up your wheel.  Steady!鈥? 鈥淪teady, sir.鈥?鈥淢ast-head
  ahoy! Do you see that whale now?鈥?鈥淎y ay, sir!  A shoal of Sperm
  Whales! There she blows!  There she breaches!鈥?鈥淪ing out! sing out
  every time!鈥?鈥淎y Ay, sir!  There she blows! there鈥攖here鈥擾thar_ she
  blows鈥攂owes鈥攂o-o-os!鈥?鈥淗ow far off?鈥?鈥淭wo miles and a half.鈥?鈥淭hunder
  and lightning! so near!  Call all hands.鈥?鈥擾J. Ross Browne鈥檚 Etchings
  of a Whaling Cruize_.  1846.



  鈥淭he Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid
  transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of
  Nantucket.鈥?鈥斺€淿Narrative of the Globe Mutiny_,鈥?_by Lay and Hussey
  survivors. A.D._ 1828.

  Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the
  assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
  rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by
  leaping into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable.鈥?
  鈥擾Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett_.

  鈥淣antucket itself,鈥?said Mr. Webster, 鈥渋s a very striking and
  peculiar portion of the National interest. There is a population of
  eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely
  every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering
  industry.鈥?鈥擾Report of Daniel Webster鈥檚 Speech in the U. S. Senate,
  on the application for the Erection of a Breakwater at Nantucket_.
  1828.

  鈥淭he whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a
  moment.鈥?鈥斺€淿The Whale and his Captors, or The Whaleman鈥檚 Adventures
  and the Whale鈥檚 Biography, gathered on the Homeward Cruise of the
  Commodore Preble_.鈥?_By Rev. Henry T. Cheever_.

  鈥淚f you make the least damn bit of noise,鈥?replied Samuel, 鈥淚 will
  send you to hell.鈥?鈥擾Life of Samuel Comstock_ (_the mutineer_), _by
  his brother, William Comstock. Another Version of the whale-ship
  Globe narrative_.

  鈥淭he voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in
  order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though
  they failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale.鈥?
  鈥擾McCulloch鈥檚 Commercial Dictionary_.

  鈥淭hese things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound
  forward again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the
  whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same
  mystic North-West Passage.鈥?鈥擾From_ 鈥淿Something_鈥?_unpublished_.

  鈥淚t is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being
  struck by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with
  look-outs at the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around
  them, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular
  voyage.鈥?鈥擾Currents and Whaling. U.S. Ex. Ex_.

  鈥淧edestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
  having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to
  form arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may
  perhaps have been told that these were the ribs of whales.鈥?鈥擾Tales
  of a Whale Voyager to the Arctic Ocean_.

  鈥淚t was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales,
  that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
  enrolled among the crew.鈥?鈥擾Newspaper Account of the Taking and
  Retaking of the Whale-Ship Hobomack_.

  鈥淚t is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
  (American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
  departed.鈥?鈥擾Cruise in a Whale Boat_.

  鈥淪uddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
  perpendicularly into the air. It was the whale.鈥?鈥擾Miriam Coffin or
  the Whale Fisherman_.

  鈥淭he Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
  manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope
  tied to the root of his tail.鈥?鈥擾A Chapter on Whaling in Ribs and
  Trucks_.

  鈥淥n one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male
  and female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a
  stone鈥檚 throw of the shore鈥?(Terra Del Fuego), 鈥渙ver which the beech
  tree extended its branches.鈥?鈥擾Darwin鈥檚 Voyage of a Naturalist_.

  鈥溾€楽tern all!鈥?exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw
  the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the
  boat, threatening it with instant destruction;鈥斺€楽tern all, for your
  lives!鈥欌€?鈥擾Wharton the Whale Killer_.

  鈥淪o be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
  harpooneer is striking the whale!鈥?鈥擾Nantucket Song_.


  鈥淥h, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be
  A giant in might, where might is right, And King of the boundless
  sea.鈥?鈥擾Whale Song_.





CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago鈥攏ever mind how long precisely鈥攈aving
little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
methodically knocking people鈥檚 hats off鈥攖hen, I account it high time to
get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they
but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,
cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs鈥攃ommerce surrounds it with her
surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
do you see?鈥擯osted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster鈥攖ied to
counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
the green fields gone? What do they here?

But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand鈥攎iles of
them鈥攍eagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
and avenues鈥攏orth, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell
me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
those ships attract them thither?

Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in
it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
reveries鈥攕tand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.
Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
ever.

But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley
of the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his
trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were
within; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up
from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands
winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in
their hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and
though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this
shepherd鈥檚 head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd鈥檚 eye were
fixed upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June,
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among
Tiger-lilies鈥攚hat is the one charm wanting?鈥擶ater鈥攖here is not a drop
of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel
your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon
suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy
him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian
trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a
robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?
Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a
mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out
of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did
the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely
all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild
image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that
same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image
of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.

Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my
lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a
passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers
get sea-sick鈥攇row quarrelsome鈥攄on鈥檛 sleep of nights鈥攄o not enjoy
themselves much, as a general thing;鈥攏o, I never go as a passenger;
nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction
of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all
honorable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind
whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,
without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.
And as for going as cook,鈥攖hough I confess there is considerable glory
in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board鈥攜et, somehow, I
never fancied broiling fowls;鈥攖hough once broiled, judiciously
buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who
will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled
fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old
Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast,
plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.
True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort of
thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one鈥檚 sense of honor,
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the
Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if
just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in
awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off
in time.

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,
I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and
respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain鈥檛
a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may
order me about鈥攈owever they may thump and punch me about, I have the
satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is
one way or other served in much the same way鈥攅ither in a physical or
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
passed round, and all hands should rub each other鈥檚 shoulder-blades,
and be content.

Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying and
being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But _being
paid_,鈥攚hat will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no
account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign
ourselves to perdition!

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if
you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not
so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. But
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a
merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling
voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the
constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in
some unaccountable way鈥攈e can better answer than any one else. And,
doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand
programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in
as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive
performances. I take it that this part of the bill must have run
something like this:

鈥淿Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the United States._
鈥淲HALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. 鈥淏LOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.鈥?

Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when
others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces鈥攖hough I
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives
which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced
me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the
delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill
and discriminating judgment.

Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all
the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds,
helped to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things
would not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an
everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and
land on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to
perceive a horror, and could still be social with it鈥攚ould they let
me鈥攕ince it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of
the place one lodges in.

By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the
great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild
conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into
my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them
all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.


CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my
arm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city
of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night
in December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little
packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching
that place would offer, till the following Monday.

As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
was her great original鈥攖he Tyre of this Carthage;鈥攖he place where the
first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes
to give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did
that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with
imported cobblestones鈥攕o goes the story鈥攖o throw at the whales, in
order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the
bowsprit?

Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,鈥擲o,
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the
north with the darkness towards the south鈥攚herever in your wisdom you
may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to
inquire the price, and don鈥檛 be too particular.

With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of 鈥淭he
Crossed Harpoons鈥濃€攂ut it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further
on, from the bright red windows of the 鈥淪word-Fish Inn,鈥?there came
such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and
ice from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay
ten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,鈥攔ather weary for me,
when I struck my foot against the flinty projections, because from
hard, remorseless service the soles of my boots were in a most
miserable plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one
moment to watch the broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of
the tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don鈥檛
you hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots are
stopping the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the streets
that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not
the cheeriest inns.

Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand,
and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At
this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of
the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood
invitingly open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble
over an ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying
particles almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city,
Gomorrah? But 鈥淭he Crossed Harpoons,鈥?and 鈥淭he Sword-Fish?鈥濃€攖his, then
must needs be the sign of 鈥淭he Trap.鈥?However, I picked myself up and
hearing a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interior
door.

It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of
Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
preacher鈥檚 text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping
and wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing
out, Wretched entertainment at the sign of 鈥楾he Trap!鈥?

Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the
docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a
swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words
underneath鈥斺€淭he Spouter Inn:鈥擯eter Coffin.鈥?

Coffin?鈥擲pouter?鈥擱ather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated
little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here
from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.

It was a queer sort of place鈥攁 gable-ended old house, one side palsied
as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than
ever it did about poor Paul鈥檚 tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless,
is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the
hob quietly toasting for bed. 鈥淚n judging of that tempestuous wind
called Euroclydon,鈥?says an old writer鈥攐f whose works I possess the
only copy extant鈥斺€渋t maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou
lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the
outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only
glazier.鈥?True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my
mind鈥攐ld black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are
windows, and this body of mine is the house. What a pity they didn鈥檛
stop up the chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in a little lint
here and there. But it鈥檚 too late to make any improvements now. The
universe is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted
off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there, chattering his teeth
against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking off his tatters with
his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags, and put a
corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silken
wrapper鈥?he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frosty
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them talk of their
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the
privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.

But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up
to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra
than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the
line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in
order to keep out this frost?

Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the
door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be
moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a
temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.

But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there
is plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted
feet, and see what sort of a place this 鈥淪pouter鈥?may be.


CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,
low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of
the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the
unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber,
portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the
picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive
a nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite,
half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to
it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what
that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas,
deceptive idea would dart you through.鈥擨t鈥檚 the Black Sea in a midnight
gale.鈥擨t鈥檚 the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.鈥擨t鈥檚 a
blasted heath.鈥擨t鈥檚 a Hyperborean winter scene.鈥擨t鈥檚 the breaking-up of
the icebound stream of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to
that one portentous something in the picture鈥檚 midst. _That_ once found
out, and all the rest were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint
resemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great leviathan himself?

In fact, the artist鈥檚 design seemed this: a final theory of my own,
partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with
whom I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its
three dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale,
purposing to spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of
impaling himself upon the three mast-heads.

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots
of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping
round like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed
mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal
and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking,
horrifying implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances
and harpoons all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With
this once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan
Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that
harpoon鈥攕o like a corkscrew now鈥攚as flung in Javan seas, and run away
with by a whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The
original iron entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle
sojourning in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last
was found imbedded in the hump.

Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way鈥攃ut
through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with
fireplaces all round鈥攜ou enter the public room. A still duskier place
is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft鈥檚
cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored
old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like
table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities
gathered from this wide world鈥檚 remotest nooks. Projecting from the
further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den鈥攖he bar鈥攁 rude
attempt at a right whale鈥檚 head. Be that how it may, there stands the
vast arched bone of the whale鈥檚 jaw, so wide, a coach might almost
drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,
like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him),
bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells
the sailors deliriums and death.

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true
cylinders without鈥攚ithin, the villanous green goggling glasses
deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads鈥?goblets. Fill to
_this_ mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_ a penny more;
and so on to the full glass鈥攖he Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp
down for a shilling.

Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_. I
sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with
a room, received for answer that his house was full鈥攏ot a bed
unoccupied. 鈥淏ut avast,鈥?he added, tapping his forehead, 鈥測ou haint no
objections to sharing a harpooneer鈥檚 blanket, have ye? I s鈥檖ose you are
goin鈥?a-whalin鈥? so you鈥檇 better get used to that sort of thing.鈥?

I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that
if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
the half of any decent man鈥檚 blanket.

鈥淚 thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?鈥攜ou want supper?
Supper鈥檒l be ready directly.鈥?

I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the
Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with
his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but
he didn鈥檛 make much headway, I thought.

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland鈥攏o fire at all鈥攖he landlord said
he couldn鈥檛 afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a
winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold
to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But the
fare was of the most substantial kind鈥攏ot only meat and potatoes, but
dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in a
green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful
manner.

鈥淢y boy,鈥?said the landlord, 鈥測ou鈥檒l have the nightmare to a dead
sartainty.鈥?

鈥淟andlord,鈥?I whispered, 鈥渢hat aint the harpooneer is it?鈥?

鈥淥h, no,鈥?said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, 鈥渢he
harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he
don鈥檛鈥攈e eats nothing but steaks, and he likes 鈥檈m rare.鈥?

鈥淭he devil he does,鈥?says I. 鈥淲here is that harpooneer? Is he here?鈥?

鈥淗e鈥檒l be here afore long,鈥?was the answer.

I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this 鈥渄ark
complexioned鈥?harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so
turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into
bed before I did.

Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not
what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the
evening as a looker on.

Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord
cried, 鈥淭hat鈥檚 the Grampus鈥檚 crew. I seed her reported in the offing
this morning; a three years鈥?voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now
we鈥檒l have the latest news from the Feegees.鈥?

A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung
open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their
shaggy watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters,
all bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they
seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from
their boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then,
that they made a straight wake for the whale鈥檚 mouth鈥攖he bar鈥攚hen the
wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out
brimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon
which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he
swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador,
or on the weather side of an ice-island.

The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began
capering about most obstreperously.

I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his
own sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much
noise as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the
sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though
but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I
will here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six
feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I
have seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and
burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the
deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem
to give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a
Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of
those tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man
slipped away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my
comrade on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his
shipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with
them, they raised a cry of 鈥淏ulkington! Bulkington! where鈥檚
Bulkington?鈥?and darted out of the house in pursuit of him.

It was now about nine o鈥檆lock, and the room seeming almost
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself
upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the
entrance of the seamen.

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
rather not sleep with your own brother. I don鈥檛 know how it is, but
people like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to
sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town,
and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely
multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should
sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they all
sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and
cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.

The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the
thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of
the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over.
Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home
and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at
midnight鈥攈ow could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?

鈥淟andlord! I鈥檝e changed my mind about that harpooneer.鈥擨 shan鈥檛 sleep
with him. I鈥檒l try the bench here.鈥?

鈥淛ust as you please; I鈥檓 sorry I can鈥檛 spare ye a tablecloth for a
mattress, and it鈥檚 a plaguy rough board here鈥濃€攆eeling of the knots and
notches. 鈥淏ut wait a bit, Skrimshander; I鈥檝e got a carpenter鈥檚 plane
there in the bar鈥攚ait, I say, and I鈥檒l make ye snug enough.鈥?So saying
he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning
like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven鈥檚 sake to quit鈥攖he
bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
brown study.

I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
than the planed one鈥攕o there was no yoking them. I then placed the
first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from
under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all,
especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in
the immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the
night.

The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn鈥檛 I steal
a march on him鈥攂olt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be
standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of
spending a sufferable night unless in some other person鈥檚 bed, I began
to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
against this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I鈥檒l wait awhile; he must be
dropping in before long. I鈥檒l have a good look at him then, and perhaps
we may become jolly good bedfellows after all鈥攖here鈥檚 no telling.

But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,
and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.

鈥淟andlord!鈥?said I, 鈥渨hat sort of a chap is he鈥攄oes he always keep such
late hours?鈥?It was now hard upon twelve o鈥檆lock.

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be
mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. 鈥淣o,鈥?he
answered, 鈥済enerally he鈥檚 an early bird鈥攁irley to bed and airley to
rise鈥攜es, he鈥檚 the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out
a peddling, you see, and I don鈥檛 see what on airth keeps him so late,
unless, may be, he can鈥檛 sell his head.鈥?

鈥淐an鈥檛 sell his head?鈥擶hat sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are
telling me?鈥?getting into a towering rage. 鈥淒o you pretend to say,
landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed
Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around
this town?鈥?

鈥淭hat鈥檚 precisely it,鈥?said the landlord, 鈥渁nd I told him he couldn鈥檛
sell it here, the market鈥檚 overstocked.鈥?

鈥淲ith what?鈥?shouted I.

鈥淲ith heads to be sure; ain鈥檛 there too many heads in the world?鈥?

鈥淚 tell you what it is, landlord,鈥?said I quite calmly, 鈥測ou鈥檇 better
stop spinning that yarn to me鈥擨鈥檓 not green.鈥?

鈥淢ay be not,鈥?taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, 鈥渂ut I
rayther guess you鈥檒l be done _brown_ if that ere harpooneer hears you a
slanderin鈥?his head.鈥?

鈥淚鈥檒l break it for him,鈥?said I, now flying into a passion again at
this unaccountable farrago of the landlord鈥檚.

鈥淚t鈥檚 broke a鈥檙eady,鈥?said he.

鈥淏roke,鈥?said I鈥斺€淿broke_, do you mean?鈥?

鈥淪artain, and that鈥檚 the very reason he can鈥檛 sell it, I guess.鈥?

鈥淟andlord,鈥?said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a
snow-storm鈥斺€渓andlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one
another, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a
bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half
belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I have
not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow鈥攁 sort of connexion,
landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I鈥檝e no idea of
sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, _you_ I mean, landlord, _you_,
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render
yourself liable to a criminal prosecution.鈥?

鈥淲all,鈥?said the landlord, fetching a long breath, 鈥渢hat鈥檚 a purty long
sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be
easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin鈥?you of has just arrived
from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 鈥檅almed New Zealand
heads (great curios, you know), and he鈥檚 sold all on 鈥檈m but one, and
that one he鈥檚 trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow鈥檚 Sunday, and it
would not do to be sellin鈥?human heads about the streets when folks is
goin鈥?to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as
he was goin鈥?out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for
all the airth like a string of inions.鈥?

This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me鈥攂ut at the
same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?

鈥淒epend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man.鈥?

鈥淗e pays reg鈥檒ar,鈥?was the rejoinder. 鈥淏ut come, it鈥檚 getting dreadful
late, you had better be turning flukes鈥攊t鈥檚 a nice bed; Sal and me
slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There鈥檚 plenty of room
for two to kick about in that bed; it鈥檚 an almighty big bed that. Why,
afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the
foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
Arter that, Sal said it wouldn鈥檛 do. Come along here, I鈥檒l give ye a
glim in a jiffy;鈥?and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards
me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
clock in the corner, he exclaimed 鈥淚 vum it鈥檚 Sunday鈥攜ou won鈥檛 see that
harpooneer to-night; he鈥檚 come to anchor somewhere鈥攃ome along then;
_do_ come; _won鈥檛_ ye come?鈥?

I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four
harpooneers to sleep abreast.

鈥淭here,鈥?said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; 鈥渢here, make
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.鈥?I turned round from
eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.

Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of
the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then
glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table,
could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf,
the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a
whale. Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a
large seaman鈥檚 bag, containing the harpooneer鈥檚 wardrobe, no doubt in
lieu of a land trunk. Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone
fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon
standing at the head of the bed.

But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to
arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it
to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as
you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to
try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy
and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious
harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit
of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink
in the neck.

I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought a
little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
the harpooneer鈥檚 not coming home at all that night, it being so very
late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots,
and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself
to the care of heaven.

Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not
sleep for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had
pretty nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard
a heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into
the room from under the door.

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal
head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word
till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New
Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without
looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on
the floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted
cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was
all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time
while employed in unlacing the bag鈥檚 mouth. This accomplished, however,
he turned round鈥攚hen, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was
of a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with
large blackish looking squares. Yes, it鈥檚 just as I thought, he鈥檚 a
terrible bedfellow; he鈥檚 been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here
he is, just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his
face so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be
sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were
stains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this;
but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story
of a white man鈥攁 whaleman too鈥攚ho, falling among the cannibals, had
been tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course
of his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And
what is it, thought I, after all! It鈥檚 only his outside; a man can be
honest in any sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly
complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely
independent of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot
sun鈥檚 tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one. However, I had
never been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these
extraordinary effects upon the skin. Now, while all these ideas were
passing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at
all. But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced
fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a
seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest in
the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head鈥攁 ghastly
thing enough鈥攁nd crammed it down into the bag. He now took off his
hat鈥攁 new beaver hat鈥攚hen I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.
There was no hair on his head鈥攏one to speak of at least鈥攏othing but a
small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now
looked for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the stranger
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker
than ever I bolted a dinner.

Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this
head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of
him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game
enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.

Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed
his chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were
checkered with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all
over the same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years鈥?
War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still
more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs
were running up the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that
he must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman
in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to
think of it. A peddler of heads too鈥攑erhaps the heads of his own
brothers. He might take a fancy to mine鈥攈eavens! look at that tomahawk!

But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me
that he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall,
or dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in
the pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image
with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days鈥?old
Congo baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought
that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar
manner. But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened
a good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing
but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage
goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board,
sets up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the
andirons. The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty,
so that I thoug

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR, THE WHALE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one鈥攖he old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
roy